# Saber
A simple, straight-forward CMS.

### Introduction
The above statement is true for the end-user, but for us developers who wish to work on the Saber platform, it will be a difficult journey. Luckily, this project adheres to many standard development practices and design patterns, so it shouldn't be too difficult to navigate and produce new, exciting features.

#### Folder Structure

* **wwwroot**
  * Most of the content that exists in this folder is generated by `gulp` from files that exist within various folders, including *Content*, *CSS*, & *Scripts*. Other files include editor-specific images and fonts. Many folders & files are specifically created by users who work within the Saber Editor GUI, uploading content for their website.
* **Common**
  * Many static classes exist in the common folder and some are shared between *Page* & *Service* classes. Since Saber uses a custom *User* class that overrides the *Datasilk Core* *User* class, the *Saber.Page* base class and *Saber.Service* base class each use their own private property to store an instance of the *Saber.User* class. Thus, common classes must be used to interface functionality that may be used between a *Page* and *Service*. This will prevent developers from instantiating a *Service* class within a *Page* class in order to use *Service* functionality, which in turn would force the *User* class to be instantiated twice, one in the *Page* class, and one in the *Service* instance. Instead, page requests should instantiate a *Page* class, and web services should instantiate a *Service* class, and both types should be kept separate.
* **Content**
  * All content related to the custom website will be stored in this folder. 
  * **pages**
    *  all files related to a web page will be stored here (*.html, *.js, *.less, *.json), including language files & page settings files.
  * **partials**
    * All partial HTML files will be stored here and can be accessed via the *file browser* within Saber's Editor GUI. These files can be referenced in page HTML files.
  * **temp**
    * When Saber's web server loads, it checks to see if a *home.html* file exists in the *Content/pages* folder. If not, Saber will proceed to copy all the files from the *temp* folder into various folders throughout the project in order to initialize the default website that comes with the Saber platform.
* **Core**
  * This folder is a git submodule for the *Datasilk Core* MVC framework. All page & web service requests are handled & routed via this framework.
* **CSS**
  * All site-wide CSS & LESS files are stored here, and gulp compiles the LESS and copies them into the *wwwroot/css* folder. 
  * **tapestry**
    * This folder is a git submodule for the CSS UI framework Tapestry, developed by Mark Entingh (who also developed Saber). Tapestry is used for the UI of Saber's Editor GUI.
  * **themes**
    * Color Schemes for Saber's Editor GUI reside in this folder, and are compiled by `gulp`
  * **platform.less**
    * This CSS file is used by Saber's Editor GUI
  * **website.less**
    * This CSS file can be modified via Saber's Editor GUI and is loaded on every page of the user's website.
* **Models**
  * Class files that represent data structures belong in this folder
* **Pages**
  * There is only one *Page* class within Saber, and it is the *Editor* class, which is responsible for rendering all web pages for the user's website. It is also responsible for rendering the Editor GUI on top of all web pages.
* **Scripts**
  * All ECMAScript libraries exist in this folder, and `gulp` is responsible for compiling them and copying them into the *wwwroot/js* folder. 
  * **platform**
    * This folder is a git submodule for the *Datasilk Core Js* framework that is used alongside the *Datasilk Core* framework. It contains features such as a modal popup, drag & drop events, svg sprite loader, and a simple scaffolding framework like *Mustache*.
  *  **selector**
     *  This folder is a git submodule for a jQuery replacement developed by Mark Entingh. It is used instead of jQuery because it weighs in under 5kb in size after being minified & gzip compressed.
  * **utility**
    * This folder contains various 3rd-party ECMAScript libraries and can also be viewed within Saber's Editor GUI, thus allowing users to upload their own JS libraries to use within their website.
* **Services**
  * This folder contains all the *Service* classes that are responsible for handling web service API requests.